Talk

Good to see humans

Extroverts 



Into



Speak w my beautiful wife



Grateful for the way that she invited the spirit. 

Faith is in Jesus Christ, not outcomes 

We become like Christ as we speak of him



I invite the hG

I invite you to not listen to me. 

The hg is the teacher listen to him. 

I invite you to not take notes of what I say, but if what he tells you. 



Data wrangling and visualization BOM project.

Wouldn’t you want to read that verse the most?
here it is.... listen to how many references to the savior. like you’ve never heard I’d 


“O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with them. Amen.”

 

We remember him always by doing everything for him. Brushing your teeth.



Jesus ministers to nephites

“And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude that they should cease to pray, and also his disciples. And he commanded them that they should not cease to pray in their hearts.”



Prayer is to get it into our hearts

To do everything for him



Talk of Christ 



Nephi bro didn’t want to build boat



26 Now ye know that Moses was commanded of the Lord to do that great work; and ye know that by his word the waters of the Red Sea were divided hither and thither, and they passed through on dry ground.

27 But ye know that the Egyptians were drowned in the Red Sea, who were the armies of Pharaoh.

28 And ye also know that they were fed with manna in the wilderness.

29 Yea, and ye also know that Moses, by his word according to the power of God which was in him, smote the rock, and there came forth water, that the children of Israel might quench their thirst.

30 And notwithstanding they being led, the Lord their God, their Redeemer, going before them, leading them by day and giving light unto them by night, and doing all things for them which were expedient for man to receive, they hardened their hearts and blinded their minds, and reviled against Moses and against the true and living God.



Not talking about the boat. 



Everything about Jesus. 



———-

Disciples trying to manage the storm, then went to Jesus as a last resort. 

He solved the root of the problem 



Rebekah and I were trying to eat healthy exercise have a good sleep schedule keep clean and organized, but we realize that there are plenty of people that do all of those things in our not happy. We must put Christ first.



—————

Missionary work (witness of him in all times all things and all places 



Every interaction does not need to end with an invitation to be baptized.



Brother Galbreath story about working on the trade floor

Really 10%?
what im surprised about is why you didn’t ask me why?


Be more willing to talk to Jesus Christ and be different. 



Be ready always to give a reason for the hope that Is in you 





Testimony

I know XYZ

BOM true

Didn’t always know

Pre mission

On misssion



Come follow me 10-13-19



How do we want to structure it?


before week = more of studying by it together instead of sharing what we learned. 


study these things together 
learning to study the scriptures is one of the most valuable skills we can have. 
2 Nephi 32:3
Swim
Snorkel 
Scuba dive 
If you give a man a fish
If you teach a man to fish


Framework of learning
I’m hoping we can learn to study better by using This as material to study

EQ lesson June 23rd



D&C 88:119

look for the ways we should view the temple
Write them
What does that look like?
How have you felt when you do that?
?What can we do to view the temple that way?


Exceeding great and precious promises- Bednar: 12th to last

What is the purpose of temple?
How does viewing the temple in this way help us do that?
Feel


——

Look for what the prophets are specifically asking us to do 

and

blessings associated with it. 



Quote 1

In addition, many youth have discovered that giving of their time to do family history research and temple work has deepened their testimony of the plan of salvation. It has increased the influence of the Spirit in their lives and decreased the influence of the adversary. It has helped them feel closer to their families and closer to the Lord Jesus Christ. They have learned that this work saves not just the dead; it saves all of us (see D&C 128:18).



Quite 2

Third, establish a pattern of regular temple attendance. This may require a little more sacrifice in your life. More regular time in the temple will allow the Lord to teach you how to draw upon His priesthood power with which you have been endowed in His temple. For those of you who don’t live near a temple, I invite you to study prayerfully about temples in the scriptures and in the words of living prophets. Seek to know more, to understand more, to feel more about temples than you ever have before.

——-

Asked to do 

Blessings



What blessings have you seen? 

How have you come closer to Christ?

What do we learn about Christ and his atonement from this?

———

I am just starting to see the blessings of regularly attending the temple 

John 7:17

Ether 12:6

what do both of these scriptures teach us?
Diminishing returns explained

increasing returns

——-



I did baptisms for the first time in 3 years. 

Because I knew and understood and felt the importance of baptism from my mission it was so much more meaningful. 



I’m working on doing the same with the endowment.



—-

???What I’ve learned about baptism 

—-



Sacrifice. Saints sacrificed a lot. Different countries sacrifice a lot. 



Sacrifice brings forth the blessings



A religion that doesn’t require the sacrifice of all things never had the power of faith sufficient to the power unto salvatikn



Spirit has whispered to you how you can improve. 

Take the rest of the time to ponder and write

What will you sacrifice?

Why will you sacrifice that?





——

——

What do you like about the temple?



Obadiah 1:last


Saviors ... what does that mean? 



————-————-————-

Teaching seminary devotional

Teaching and learning by the spirit 



2 Nephi 33



How have you felt the power of the Holy Ghost carry truth Into your heart?

Others?



Some are hardened. 

Nephi isn’t hardened. 

As you read look for

How do you know?



—

—

1 And now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which were taught among my people; neither am I mighty in writing, like unto speaking; for when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men.

2 But behold, there are many that harden their hearts against the Holy Spirit, that it hath no place in them; wherefore, they cast many things away which are written and esteem them as things of naught.

3 But I, Nephi, have written what I have written, and I esteem it as of great worth, and especially unto my people. For I pray continually for them by day, and mine eyes water my pillow by night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I know that he will hear my cry

—

—



who you are and what you feel is more important than what you do—-

(If you have the spirit, they will have the spirit.

—————————————————————-

D&C 42:14

1 Cor 1:17



Abt vid

•	+ 	they must choose obedience to commandments when temptationsrise

•	Must be from their faith. 

•	That faith can only come from the spirit 



Therefore if ye have not the spirit ye shall not teach



— who you are and what you feel is more important than what you do—-

(If you have the spirit, they will have the spirit. If you don’t have the spirit nothing you can do can pass the spirit on)





You must have CINFIDANCE that the spirit will guid you. You must be totally committed to following his directions. 




Only once God knows we will obey does he send the spirit in more abundance. 



———-



Elders quorum lesson 4-28-19



ask for experiences
Relate the scriptures 
“I wonder why____”
Expound like sem teacher. Like marli


_______________________________________

Immediate goodness of god

1st 2 P
Why do we need patience for faith?
....
PMG ch. 6. Patience
1st P
Quote
Question- keep that in mind as we read some of these scriptures
Mosiah 23:21
Romans 5:3-5
James 5:10-11
Romans 8:24-25
What does that say to you?
Why do we need patience for faith?


Immediate blessings
Next P
If they weren’t patient, what would have been different?
What do you learn from fact that others recognized the immediate goodness of god in others?
Sometimes hard to see it in our own lives
We can learn from others
We can learn from scriptures
Driving w sigs. Stressed. Prayed. Temple. Sang. Better.
Almost didn’t notice
What are some immediate blessings you have seen?
.....


Why is it important to recognize gods hand?
....
How? Why?
D&C 6:14
Little confusing. Basically says...
What does that say to you?
Hebrews 11:1 faith 
mosiah 4:9-11


P. 10-14 “from the time she was a young teen..”
Thoughts? What did you learn?
BD:Prayer


P. Second to last
Children of Israel 30 second summary Egypt to Jericho. 
Does anyone know how long Lehi and his family traveled before they got to the sea? Took Nephi 10 years to get to sea. Not that far. 
What lessons can we learn from that?
Journey not the destination
Got will make it berrable as we turn to him


Filler??

DC 121:1-9
What do we learn from gods answer?
....
He doesn’t say when, but teaches him doctrine. 
Mosiah 2:24
Sometimes we think X commandment should result Y blessing. But he immediately blesses us
go back to faith and use SF YSA lesson plan. Start at ——> ——-> ——->




Closing

Upward corse quote?

invitation to pray this week to see gods hand. I promise you if you do, you will know and feel of gods love. You will be happier and You will have more faith 
Will FU next week


———————



DC 121. Any blessing from predicated law






Talk on faith covenants and 

3-6-19



From 2-23-19 studies 



1 Nephi 3:15

it took a lot of faith for Nephi to say that
Speaking our goals/ intentions shows faith. 
Believing that it’s possible
It’s a commitment that they will not move on until they succeed. I need to have this 
It’s affirming the fact that god lives and is on their side. 
It affirms the fact that we are alive and experiencing life. If we don’t do hard faithfulled things- what will we do? What’s the point of life?
It shows his dedication loyalty and commitment to following gods will. He doesn’t change his mind and think “oh, maybe god didn’t really NEED us to get the plates”
It sets a standard of “we will not...”. 
I need to similarly have pre determined standards of “I will not....” so in the heat of the moment I know what to do
I will not kiss a girl unless I could see myself marrying her. 
I will not hold hands or cuddle with a girl that I don’t want to take on another date. 
I will not knowingly go to and stay at a party like the ones I used to go to
I will not do homework on Sunday (except REL HW and talks)
:16 It doesnt clarify if he had the idea before he said the faith filled statement, but I imagine He comes up with and presents an idea to trade their riches after he shows his faith and commits. (He didn’t know before hand the things he should do).
A lot of times we will show faith and feel prompted to do something that doesn’t work out. That’s ok. Success isn’t the only thing that matters in life. Learning is important too. Also that failure probably lead to a successful plan. 
A lot of times god tells us to do something because it will set us up for success in the future. 


Today after riding mopeds around in Cabo (moxie cruise) we came back to the ship and got in the hot tub. 2 good looking really drunk girls came in. On sat right next to me and the other sat next to Phil (he’s apiscaple. Cool guy). She got really close to me so I scooted away. She scooted up again. After about 10 minutes we were in the other side of the hot tub. I had both my arms out of the hot tub so we were almost cuddling. Obviously I liked it but I didn’t know what to think of it. I thought of what I had written last night. (Above). It would be so easy to make out with them or do whatever I wanted. I won’t do that because I’ve already decided no for things like that. 





There is seriously so much power in deciding ahead of time. 

Most of the times when you study the Scriptures, the blessings are slow and little by little. We can’t identify exactly when they come. By small and simple things are great things brought to pass. But this was an immediate blessing the next day for studying the scriptures. If I had not written that I don’t know if anything different would have happened, but it through up a huge red fag in my mind. 



When I wrote the thing about cuddling and holding hands I didn’t really fully commit. It just sounded nice and like a good idea. I need to be more firm on my decisions. When you receive revelation, don’t only write it down. Covenant with god that you will do it. Seal it. Write it on your heart. I learned this last week on the cruise when I made a list of “I will not...” but the no cuddling one I didn’t fully commit to. It sounded nice so I wrote it but didn’t take the time and energy to seal it. It’s like when you have a lot of paperwork to go through. It takes effort to make it official. To truly understand that the pre determined decision is the best thing for you and then covenant with god. 

Ask soon as you covenant (or even come close) Satan will attack you on that topic. After writing that list, the hot tub thing happened, and the last night of the cruise I got roped into going to the club on the ship. It wasn’t super bad, but the music wasn’t uplifting and about 45 min in I found myself singing along to a song thats lyrics I don’t agree with. the spirit told me to leave so I did immediately. 



28th

Prayer

write a list of my standards so I know what I will and won’t participate in this summer
I will not participate in what are the odds/dares that are rude to others or make me do something christ wouldn’t do
How would I feel if President Robinson was in the room?




From March 6th journal

6t



After a business FaceTime w Michael Warr I stayed on the line and was like “I feel like there is somthing else we needed to talk about. But idk...” we talked and then he asked “how are you doing spiritually?” I answered, learned about myself, asked him. He said he used to always have that as part of the conversation. I need to do that too. He mentioned that i should ask people at moxie that question. That was an answer to my prayer and fasting over the last week or so to know how I can stay a disciple this summer. 







Needlessly Staying up late is a result of ingratitude. You most likely feel unsatisfied with the day. You feel there is something else you can accomplish or you still have hope of having fun. If you were grateful you wouldn’t have that need to stay up. 

Being stressed leads to sin. After a stressful day you justify eating junk food. 



I need to write a list of the things I will and won’t do over the summer. I also need to covenant with god about a bed time.  It should only be broken when justified by the spirit. 



Speaking things into existence shows faith. 



This process of making covenants takes time



While talking to Michael I realized that every time I can remember where I finished a prayer and then felt prompted to get back on my knees because I wasn’t done praying- I received some cool revelation. 

Like this: earlier the other day in 1 Nephi 4:2 I learned that I can command my sins and weaknesses to get out of the way. When I said my nighttime prayer it was late so it was rushed. Once I was all Cozey in my bed I get that I wasn’t done praying. I really didn’t want to but I got back on my knees and prayed. The spirit brought to my mind what I had learned and told me to do it for a specific weakness. 





Michaels Warr’s revelation journal on the topic

Though we may have sinned an hour ago, the Lord will accepts a new and pure intent Covenant as if the sin was a thousand years old and has been repented of for a long time. A covenant will be incomplete however if we do not make a new commitment that says that we will do something different or better than last covenant so as to say that there is a new hope for this contract for it has better obligations that can be met to lead to better character. Meaning we have reason to suppose that this new obligation is one we can feasibly perform. As we are quick to repent and quick to make these specific obligations and laws for ourselves to be more obedient to God’s laws, we will find progress. Remember: the greater covenant is that one that builds off the broken. Also, once a contract is broken, you no longer have the power or promise from Gods end for it unless you renew the contract. Also you yourself will have no desire to live the law you have recently broke until you renew your contract and are then bound to an untainted obligation. 











There are so many moving part to this story I can’t even keep them straight. It was no coincidence that all these ideas and lessons lined up so perfectly. Fasting and prayer works. 







1 Nephi 4:9-17

God delivers our sins into our hands but we must have the courage and willpower to “slay the dragon”. It’s scary and hard but he will help us. It takes faith repentance and COVENANTING with god that you will change. 







Gubler reunion 2018 10 min talk

Responding to revelation



share some experiences and tie it into how important it is to when we have a though to do somthing for someone- to do it


Sis. Garcia 
time wasting bible bash
Ignored prompting to leave
Next day studied Alma 12:9-11
9 And now Alma began to expound these things unto him, saying: It is given unto many to know the mysteries of God; according to the heed and diligence which they give unto him.

Used to think it was weird stuff like...

Truth that is revealed to us through thoughts or feelings

Ways to help a struggling friend

What should I do in _____situation?

Determined by how often we act on those thoughts

10 And therefore, he that will harden his heart, not follow the promptings the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full.

If we act on the thoughts and feelings we have, we will receive more- if we don’t, we will receive less 

This is the part that punched me in the face

11 And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the lesser portion of the word until they know nothing concerning his mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led by his will down to destruction. Now this is what is meant by the chains of hell.



After being home for a while 
Russel’s let me borrow car. 
Was in hurry. 
Felt like I should go back
realized I had started thinking i couldn’t receive revelation like I used to because it’s not as important
Really trying to follow the first thoughts that come into my head
Stopped run to ask lady if needed help weeding
Took cookies to her mom
Don’t worry about it it’s you or the spirit- it doesn’t matter. Good comes from god. Just do it. 
Following first promptings
Instinct is almost always right


I know we have good ideas and thoughts so we can act. 
Challenge each of us to act on the thoughts And feelings
